RV-Android: Developer-Only Prototype
==============
[RV-Android](http://runtimeverification.com/android) is a brand new prototype of the application of [runtime verification](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Runtime_verification) technology.

The prototype examples provided here use [AspectJ](http://eclipse.org/aspectj/) for the instrumentation of Android runtime.  With utilities like dex2jar, WeaveDroid, or soot, with some additional effort it is possible to use the libraries generated by RV-Android with binary APK's.

RV-Android is intended for Android developers looking to experiment with runtime verification technology to improve the quality of their Android applications.  While on-device, user-controlled runtime verification technology for Android is the ultimate goal, this prototype demonstrates the RV-Android runtime environment with one possible instrumentation mechanism specifically targeted at developers.

License
--------------
RV-Android and its associated libraries are provided free for non-commerical use only.  You may not distribute, modify, package, or retransmit any files contained herein.

To discuss RV-Android and RV-Monitor licensing, e-amil contact [at] runtimeverification.com

Installation and Preparation
--------------
Currently RV-Android only officially supports Linux-based environments, though the instructions are similar for running on Windows.

To install RV-Android:
- Install Java JRE 7, ant, AspectJ and git.  For Ubuntu 14.04: sudo apt-get install default-jre default-jdk ant aspectj git
- Make sure you have Java 7 installed by typing java -version.  You should see Java 1.7.x echoed as the version.  Also, running the "ant -version" and "ajc" commands should not yield errors at this stage.
- Browse to your desired Android directory and download RV-Android.  git clone https://github.com/runtimeverification/rv-android
- Copy aspectjtools.jar to the ant library directory (ASPECTJ_HOME/lib to ANT_HOME/lib).  On Ubuntu 14.04: sudo cp /usr/share/java/aspectjtools.jar /usr/share/ant/lib/.
- Add rv-android/rv-monitor to your user's PATH.  For example, if RV-Android is in /home/myuser/rv-android use: vi ~/.bashrc and add
PATH=$PATH:/home/user/rv-android/rv-monitor
to the end of the file.  To test, open a new terminal and run rv-monitor, and a help screen should be displayed.
- If you have a 64 bit Linux install, install either ia32-libs (deprecated) or lib32z1 and lib32stdc++6 (required for Android SDK).  For Ubuntu 14.04: sudo apt-get install lib32stdc++6 lib32z1
- Download the Android SDK from http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html for your system and extract it to a known directory.
- Navigate to the sdk/tools subfolder of your SDK install and run sudo ./android.  This will open a GUI from which to install additional API platforms.  Our examples use Android 4.1.2 (API 16), so check the box next to the top level "Android 4.1.2 (API 16)" folder and press the install button, accepting all licenses.  At the end of this step, your sdk/platforms subfolder of your adt install should contain a "android-16" directory.

Your installation process is now complete and you are ready to create your own monitored project or run our examples!

For any issues or problems installing RV-Android, please file a GitHub issue and we will provide support for your system.  It is also likely that RV-Android will work with other versions of the Android SDK, but we have not tested this.  If you encounter any related bugs, file a Github issue.

Usage Instructions
--------------
To run either of the provided examples, please see the READMEs included in their respective directories.

To include RV-Monitor in any Android app being built with the standard ant build process, there are several steps:
- Copy libraries from rv-android/libs into your project's libs directory
- Copy custom_rules.xml from rv-android into your project's root directory (to allow for AspectJ weaving during the Android build process)
- Create a directory called aspects and one called properties
- Add RV-Monitor or MOP properties into the properties directory
- Generate monitoring libraries by calling rv-monitor [property_name.rvm]
- Copy the properties to their relevant location in the source tree manually (this step will eventually be automated)
- Insert instrumentation/AOP weaving instructions (either auto-generated if using MOP or manually generated with standard RV Monitor files) into the aspects folder
- Run ant debug to build your application
